hey everyone I'm back again with another
Chinese sayings podcast Basel Montgomery
here as usual another good one today a
staple again if I may add I've heard and
read this one more than a few times in
my checkered career to climb a tree to
catch a fish he could probably guess
this Chung you has something to do with
attempting to achieve the impossible for
characters you're an mu show you climb a
tree to catch a fish here's the
breakdown in these four syllables jen is
a character with several meanings none
of which seem to have anything to do
with climbing but that's what it means
in this example and mu means wood or a
tree so you're an move in this case
means to climb a tree chill yeah one of
those sounds we don't have in English
show means to seek or to look for and
you means fish show you to seek a fish
if you had move climb a tree show you
look for a fish to climb a tree to catch
a fish and like all these Chung you
presented to you at the Chinese sayings
podcast there's a story behind this and
without any further delay that might put
us into stoppage time later let me get
on with it the story of to climb a tree
to capture fish goes all the way back to
the warring States Period again the Joe
dynasty I mentioned before that joke
dynasty was divided up between the
Western and Eastern Joe and the Eastern
Joe was divided up between the spring
and autumn period followed by the
warring States Period this was the
dynasty that witnessed the birth of core
Chinese culture this was the dynasty
where the foundation was poured this was
all mentioned in a few early China
history podcast episodes covering the
Western and Eastern Joe and again in the
episode about the venerable Duke of Joe
it was a very fascinating time in
ancient chinese history this was china's
equivalent to europe's medieval period
with castles fiefdom nobles and
in white satin and the most famous guy
to come out of that period by a
landslide was Confucius but if
Confucius's most famous follower back in
the day was munch asst in China they
know him as munson Monza's time on the
good earth was from 372 to 289 BCE 2300
years ago this was the warring states
period in China China back then at the
beginning was made up primarily of the
lands that are shandong jinan jibei
shaanxi and shoddy she the places where
China began but China in those days late
4th century early 3rd century BCE was
still all divided up in different states
there were a lot of them but in the time
we're talking about today there were
less than ten and one of those states
was the state of Qi in present-day
shandong province the ruler there at the
time of month sir was king Shen of Qi
and this King had grand designs on all
the lands in China and seemed determined
to conquer everyone by force of arms
monza was also from the state of Qi and
he was contemporary to the chi king Shen
and Monza was a regular visitor to the
king who often called him to the palace
to seek his sagacious advice now Monza's
main argument to the king when it was
told of King shreds big plans to conquer
the world was that he should consider
instead a more benevolent path to
leadership if he led through benevolence
and wisdom people from the other lands
would flock to him and accept his
leadership and authority based on his
goodness now this King Shen of Qi was
looking for a faster route to power he
was already making plans to conquer the
state's adjacent to him but his real
endgame was to take over the world which
in those days meant China monza tried to
talk him out of this and asked him did
he not have enough treasure and money
the best food whenever he wanted it
works of priceless art hanging in his
palace enough royal robes and
is wardrobe not enough people at his
beck and call 24 hours a day what was it
that made him so unsatisfied with his
lot in life what more did he want that
he didn't already have King Shen he said
all those material things are
meaningless that's not what he was after
so monks have just looked at him and he
concluded that this royal was just
trying to take over the whole world for
no other reason than to have everyone
bow down to him monks had chided him
that to do something like this
militarily was like climbing a tree to
catch a fish the King looked at monza
and asked is it really that hopeless
like climbing a tree to catch a fish
monza said it's worse than that if you
climb a tree but don't catch any fish no
big deal you tried something that was
impossible but nobody got hurt but if
you try and conquer the world through
force of arms you'll bring calamity on
yourself your house and your kingdom how
are you one single kingdom gonna take
out the other eight kingdoms you're not
even the most powerful he told King Shen
it's always the strong kingdoms who
defeat the weaker ones and those with
many soldiers who defeat those with too
few he plainly told his king if you try
and carry out your grand scheme you're
guaranteed to fail with advice like that
good qingshan no Chi reconsidered and
decided to backburner his plans so
climbing a tree to catch a fish means
you're wasting your time trying to do
the impossible you're totally going
about it the wrong way you're not going
to get what you want your animove show
you so this is another nice example of
how Chinese Chung you works for
character phrase here's a nice historic
backstory to it with a nice moral you
and move show you to climb a tree to
catch a fish Thank You munsi for such
profundity okay that's going to be it
for this time this is laszlo Montgomery
signing off from LA and saying stay out
of the trees if you're looking to catch
fish thanks a million for listening and
I cordially welcome every single one you
to go check out our brother and sister
podcast
teacup dot media the China vintage
shower features the best and most
entertaining antiquarian literature from
18th and 19th century travelers to China
and for all the Chinese history you ever
dreamed of streaming or downloading go
check out the China history podcast
everything all in one place for your
inconvenience at teacup dot media you
won't be sorry take care of you want and
please be my guest next time for another
delectable episode of a Chinese sayings
podcast